yo hey how's it going
good man how are you
pretty well how are you good i'm sorry
but
i'm really enjoying connecting with the
community today so i'm i'm feeling the
hype
i guess i'll hop right in uh you can
call me
and pick or hippo for this um
hippo it is so my world view
is um you know kind of around
being empathetic kind and kind of
respecting everybody's humanity
um and i've been really
struggling lately with kind of existing
in a world that seems to
reward people for being the antithesis
of that
um and then that kind of leads into a
second part
of when i see
you know rush limbaugh die or
um you know the capitol riders rioters
get
thrown in prison or um you know even an
anti-massacre get covered
my knee-jerk reaction is kind of like
haha good
um but i don't want to be that person
especially if i'm trying to you know be
apathetic and kind um i don't
necessarily want to
extend my empathy to them but i also
don't want to revel in their pain
okay so a hippo
yeah go ahead my question is really just
like how to resist
that feeling of you know kind of
those like fuzzy feelings you get when
you see somebody get like they're just
desserts
let me think about this for a second
it's a good question
tell me a little bit about the you said
something about like
existing in a world where evil people
are rewarded
yeah i would say um so
i've kind of been struggling with i
guess what i
think to be um dysmea or
persistent or dysmia and persistent
depressive disorder for
many many years um and
you know i think that's a lot to do with
it of
just you know the root the world seems
to reward
selfish people um and that's very
disappointing to me do you feel like
the world has do you feel like you're a
good person
uh i like to think i am a good person
um do you feel like the world has
screwed you because of it oh certainly
yeah how so
uh just i've you know my kindness has
been
taken advantage of plenty of times or
not
being um
i feel like i often get run over for
i guess not being outspoken about you
know my beliefs
or you know even
people bullying me would get popular
because of it or
people would be popular because of
bullying not maybe not necessarily me
specifically
uh can you give us an example of like
how you were taken advantage of because
of your kindness
uh i guess it might not even be
kindness but not confrontationalness
like i
am an amazing musician and in my band
um you know a lot of times i guess i
don't
i'll put my feelings aside about like a
decision
um just to avoid the confrontation
uh i guess a lot of times i'm
you know in my head it's like you know
what they'll i'll let them think
whatever they want to think and then
eventually they'll just come around to
my way of thinking when i'm
proven to be right so
justice will happen in the end
yeah essentially what i'm hearing is
that you've got a pretty big justice
boner
uh sure yeah i would say that's pretty
accurate
oh yeah so hippo here's here's my take
okay so the first thing is that i think
that like
you're when you look at the world
and you feel like you know you want to
revel in
in rush limbaugh's passing
i think that that comes from like your
own
personal experience of injustice
right it's like it's like the the way in
which you look at the world and how like
evil people
are rewarded and like evil people were
rewarded by taking advantage of you
and that's sort of like why you care
about it in the world
and the reason that you revel in it is
because like you what you really wanted
is those bullies to get
you know justice served to them and so
when when there are people that you
perceive as evil who get like justice
served to them it sort of like
feels really good to you because that's
sort of like what you always wanted
right does that make sense like do you
see how your personal experiences
and the things that you choose to care
about in the world could be related
yeah um it's i guess what
i struggle with is like yeah i'll have
that warm fuzzy feeling for a second but
then i'll feel really bad about
harboring that feeling
um i want to yeah yeah go ahead
oh that's please please go ahead yeah so
so i i i didn't mean to talk over you
just then
but um so i i get that and and so i
think that like you're a good person but
what
what i'm what i'm hearing is that like
so this is my
impression of people who get like caught
up with like issues
so i think a lot of people who get
caught up with issues
have a personal like driving force
that causes them to care about that
thing now that isn't necessarily good or
bad but
i think sometimes people will try to
save the world
at the neglect to like growing as a
human being
and the worst case scenario which
unfortunately i've seen
is people who are crappy human beings
who
call the who allow for themselves to be
crappy
because they support a good cause
right and like that's like that's sort
of like the end goal
of like where we don't want to go which
is that i'm going to be like a complete
toxic person but because i support
something
that is morally correct in the macro
sense it excuses my personal behavior
and i don't need to grow as a good
person because i support black lives
matter and if i
support black lives matter then i'm a
good person and i can be mean to people
on the internet and i can
be you know i can
slash people's tires who are racist and
from texas
because black lives matter and that's
what makes me a good person
so i think you've got to be a little bit
careful here because i think
your mind is doing something very
interesting which is that
you have personal experiences
which my sense is that you're projecting
those personal experiences
and putting the focus of your mind on
the outside world
and then what happens is like your mind
is looking at all these terrible things
in the world and you can't fix
those and so then you begin to feel like
oh my god the world is like a terrible
place and like i can't do anything about
it
and how like look at all these like evil
people that are triumphing
and that's like depressing because
there's so much evil in the world and
like you can't do anything about it
and so but it's kind of weird because
it's like your mind is choosing to look
at problems that you have no
control over and i think the reason that
you care about those problems is because
they relate to you personally
it's like like there were evil people
who did things to you
and the world did not serve them justice
and so you become very very sensitive to
that i don't mean sensitive in like a
you know like a weak emotional way i
mean like sensitive in the sense that
your mind is like picks up those things
in the outside world
hyper aware of it hyper aware very good
and
and then what happens is like when those
people do get justice like
the part of you that yearn for justice
from the bullies
the part of you that yearns for justice
from your bandmates when they come
around to see that way
like that part of you gets satisfied
because that's what it's hungry for
and then you feel guilty because you
recognize there's something like
fundamentally like wrong about that
revelry
but and so this is where everything i
think comes back
to home which is like you've got to work
through like your
personal issues of being wronged
and being non-confrontational and like
being on the short end of the stick
because until like and as you start to
do that i think it's going to be weird
but like as you develop like
tranquility and security in yourself the
problems of the world don't change
it's just you feel capable of like doing
something about them
but if you want to fix the world it's
like you have to be like confident in
yourself
first and then you can go out and start
to do things in the world that will like
start to make a dent of a difference
but the problem is if you feel like you
know if you don't feel confident in
yourself
you can have a minor impact on
goodness in the world either way the
difference is that the way that you
view yourself determines how satisfied
you can be with that contribution
yeah yeah i definitely make sense i've
struggled with um kind of like a deep
feeling of being a burden for a really
long time
um and i do go to therapy almost weekly
and work on it um
yeah good so i think this is where like
like i've seen this with people who have
dysthymia
usually right so like kind of like what
you mentioned whereas they have these
big like existential
concerns and i know it sounds weird but
like in my experience with these people
you don't worry about the existential
concerns because the existential
concerns are sort of like an
externalization of internal conflicts
and what you really focus on is internal
conflict and then suddenly like if you
really make progress
there and you make progress and sort of
like yourself in your sense of
confidence
even though the world hasn't changed you
start to look at it as something that
you can like
chip away at as opposed to something
that is impossible
yeah that makes a lot of sense i've
definitely
like i have a wonderful support group
of friends and i often catch myself
waiting like waiting for them to let me
down
um yeah so that's what you need to work
on hippo like root and stem
right so it's like it's like when you
catch yourself wait it's beautiful that
you're able to do that
because like that's the way that your
mind looks at the external world too
you become hyper aware of things that
will confirm
your negative view of the world and as
long as that hyper awareness is there
your mind will filter out all of the
reasons
why the world is a terrible filter in
all of the reasons why the world is a
terrible place and why you should feel
hopeless
and as long as that filter exists you're
going to view the world as hopeless
yeah that makes a little sense right so
i think you've it's good i think you've
taken a really important step in
becoming aware of that filter
and like so like you know if you've got
the filter like that's what you've got
to remove and then the world will become
a different place
so i guess like is removing the
filter just you know a matter of like
talk therapy and
individualized treatment at that point
how long have you been in therapy
uh therapy only about uh
three four months or so okay good so i
was afraid that because some people with
this time you will have been therapy for
like decades
and and so if you've only been in
therapy for three or four months i'd say
definitely stick with it i'd give it a
minimum of a year to 18 months
if you're feeling like it's not helping
please tell your therapist hey i feel
like this isn't helping
because that could be your dysthymie
itself
does that make sense nothing is getting
better
exactly so so let your therapist work
with you on that and the reason that
you've got to tell but you also don't
want to ignore those feelings
because that could be your dysthymia or
you could have a crappy therapy
relationship
right and you're not going to be able to
tell the difference does that make sense
so you got to bring it up to your
therapist
and work through it and see if that's
helping because you may need to switch
therapists
but i'd give yourself at least like a
year to 18 months
in therapy and also like continue to do
um you know meditate if you can and
become aware of as much as you can
hippo you don't have to change anything
yet first you want to do like
reconnaissance
and and like map everything out in your
mind and the more you map things out the
easier it's going to be to start
changing stuff
okay yeah i can definitely um
yeah understand that for sure yeah good
luck to you bro
thank you appreciate the where is it i
think the fact that you're coming here
and you're asking this question
as long as you do as long as you listen
to the voice that brought you here
i think your life will change
okay i i think that's probably the big
issue is
trusting that voice yep exactly well
said
and that's what i'm saying like you just
got to learn how to trust it
because that's your that's the part of
you that wants to move forward and make
a change in your life
so your biggest challenge is in not
trusting that voice
because until you start trusting it or
you don't even have to trust it
just listen to it anyway got it
well dude thanks for all that take care
hippo good luck dude
do as well